<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>未知</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../page_styles.css"/>

  


<link href="../../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>


<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
  <h1 class="bodycontent-first-title">注释</h1>

  <p class="bodycontent-text_center">1949年版前言</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">1　Sigmund Freud, <span class="xieti">The Future of an Illusion</span>(translated by James Strachey et al.,Standard Edition, XXI;London:Hogarth Press,1961),pp.44-45.(Orig.1927.)</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">2　Rg Veda:1.164.46.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text_center">开场　单一神话</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">1　Clement Wood, Dreams:<span class="xieti">Their Meaning and Practical Application</span>(New York:Green-berg,1931),p.124.作者说（p.viii）：“书中梦的素材主要来自每周别人发给我的1 000多个梦，它们都是我进行研究分析的素材，与我每天为全国各家报纸写的专题文章有关。同时它们也成为了我在开私人诊所时曾收集并分析过的梦的补充。”与那些主题为梦境分析的标准著作中所呈现的大多数梦相比，这篇对弗洛伊德的通俗介绍中的梦来自未接受过治疗的人。他们非常坦率，毫无保留。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">2　Géza Róheim, <span class="xieti">The Origin and Function of Culture</span>(Nervous and Mental Disease Monographs, No.69,New York,1943),pp.17-25.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">3　D.T.Burlingham,"Die Einfühlung des Kleinkindes in die Mutter,"Imago, XXI, p.429;cited by Géza Róheim, War, <span class="xieti">Crime and the Covenant</span>(<span class="xieti">Journal of Clinical Psychopathology, Monograph Series</span>, No.1,Monticello, NY,1945),p.1.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">4　Róheim, <span class="xieti">War, Crime and the Covenant</span>, p.3.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">5　Freud, <span class="xieti">The Interpretation of Dreams</span>(translated by James Strachey, Standard Edition, IV;London:The Hogarth Press,1953),p.262.(Orig.1900.)</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">6　Freud, <span class="xieti">Three Essays on the Theory of Sexuality</span>, III:"The Transformations of Puberty"(translated by James Strachey, Standard Edition, VII;London:The Hogarth Press,1953),p.208.(Orig.1905.)</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">7　Sophocles, <span class="xieti">Oedipus Tyrannus</span>, pp.981-83.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">8　Wood, op.cit.,pp.92-93.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">9　A.van Gennep, <span class="xieti">Les rites de passage</span>(Paris,1909).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">10　Géza Róheim, <span class="xieti">The Eternal Ones of the Dream</span>(New York:International Universities Press,1945),p.178.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">11　C.G.Jung, <span class="xieti">Symbols of Transformation</span>(translated by R.F.C.Hull, <span class="xieti">Collected Works</span>, vol.5,New York and London,2nd ed.,1967),par.585.(Orig.1911-12,<span class="xieti">Wandlungen und Symbole der Libido</span>, translated by Beatrice M.Hinkle as <span class="xieti">Psychology of the Unconscious</span>,1916.Revised by Jung,1952.)</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">12　Harold Peake and Herbert John Fleure, <span class="xieti">The Way of the Sea and Merchant Venturers in Bronze</span>(New Haven, CT:Yale University Press,1929 and 1931).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">13　Leo Frobenius, <span class="xieti">Das unbekannte Afrika</span>(Munich:Oskar Beck,1923),pp.10-11.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">14　Ovid, <span class="xieti">Metamorphoses</span>, VIII,132 ff.;IX,736 ff.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">15　T.S.Eliot, <span class="xieti">The Waste Land</span>(New York:Harcourt, Brace and Company;London:Faber and Faber,1922),pp.340-45.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">16　Arnold J.Toynbee, <span class="xieti">A Study of History</span>(Oxford University Press,1934),vol.VI, pp.169-75.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">17　"Forms or images of a collective nature which occur practically all over the earth asconstituents of myths and at the same time as autochthonous, individual products of unconscious origin"(C.G.Jung, <span class="xieti">Psychology and Religion</span>[Collected Works, vol.11;New York and London,1958],par.88.Orig.written in English,1937.See also his <span class="xieti">Psychological Types</span>, index.)</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">18　Jung, <span class="xieti">Psychology and Religion</span>, par.89.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">19　Friedrich Nietzsche, <span class="xieti">Human, All Too Human</span>, vol.I, p.13;cited by Jung, <span class="xieti">Psychologyand Religion</span>, par.89,n.17.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">20　Adolph Bastian, <span class="xieti">Ethnische Elementargedanken in der Lehre vom Menschen</span>, Berlin,1895,vol.I, p.ix.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">21　Franz Boas, <span class="xieti">The Mind of Primitive Man</span>(1911),pp.104,155,228.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">22　James G.Frazer, <span class="xieti">The Golden Bough</span>, one-volume edition, p.386.Copyright 1922 by the Macmillan Company and used with their permission.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">23　Sigmund Freud, <span class="xieti">The Interpretation of Dreams</span>, translated by James Strachey, Standard Edition, V,pp.350-51.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">24　Jung, <span class="xieti">Psychology and Religion</span>, par.89.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">25　这是吉扎·罗海姆翻译的一个澳大利亚阿兰达术语"altjiranga mitjina"，指的是在一个被称为"altjiranga nakala"的时期游走于世界的一位虚构的祖先。"altjira"的的含义有三个：（a）梦；（b）祖先，出现在梦境中的生物；（c）故事。（Róheim, <span class="xieti">The Eternal Ones of the Dream</span>, pp.210-11）.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">26　Frederick Pierce, <span class="xieti">Dreams and Personality</span>(Copyright 1931 by D.Appleton and Co.,publishers),pp.108-9.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">27　Words written over the Gate of Hell:</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text"><span class="xieti">Per me si va nella città dolente,</span></p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text"><span class="xieti">Per me si va nell'eterno dolore,</span></p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text"><span class="xieti">Per me si va tra la Perduta Gente.</span></p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">—Dante,"Inferno,"III,1-3.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">The translation is by Charles Eliot Norton, <span class="xieti">The Divine Comedy of Dante Alighieri</span>(Boston and New York:Houghton Mifflin Company,1902)；this and the other quotations listed in footnotes used by permission of the publishers.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">28　Katha Upani?ad,3-14.(Unless otherwise noted, my quotations of the <span class="xieti">Upanishads</span> will be taken from Robert Ernest Hume, <span class="xieti">The Thirteen Principal Upanishads, Translated from the Sanskrit</span>, Oxford University Press,1931.)</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">《奥义书》是印度哲学文献的一个类别，内容涉及人类和宇宙的本质，它构成了正统哲学思辨的晚期部分。最早的文献可以追溯到大约公元前8世纪。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">29　James Joyce, <span class="xieti">A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man</span>(New York:The Modern Library;Random House, Inc.),p.239.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">30　Aristotle, <span class="xieti">On the Art of Poetry</span>(translated by Ingram Bywater, with a preface by Gilbert Murray, Oxford University Press,1920),pp.14-16.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">31　Robinson Jeffers, <span class="xieti">Roan Stallion</span>(New York:Horace Liveright,1925),p.20.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">32　Euripides, <span class="xieti">Bacchae</span>, p.1017(translated by Gilbert Murray).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">33　Euripides, <span class="xieti">The Cretans,</span> frg.475,ap.Porphyry, <span class="xieti">De abstinentia</span>, IV, p.19,trans.Gilbert Murray.See discussion of this verse by Jane Harrison, <span class="xieti">Prolegomena to a Study of Greek Religion</span>(3rd edition, Cambridge University Press,1992),pp.478-500.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">34　Ovid, <span class="xieti">Metamorphoses</span>, XV,165-67,184-85(translation by Frank Justus Miller, the Loeb Classical Library).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">35　Bhagavad Gita,2:18(translation by Swami Nikhilananda, New York,1944).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">36　“单一神话”这个词出自詹姆斯·乔伊斯的《芬尼根的守灵夜》（<span class="xieti">New York:Viking Press, Inc.,1939</span>），p.581.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">37　Virgil, <span class="xieti">Aeneid</span>, VI, p.892.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">38　Greatly abridged from <span class="xieti">Jataka</span>, Introduction, i,pp.58-75(translated by Henry Clarke Warren, <span class="xieti">Buddhism in Translations</span>[Harvard Oriental Series 3],[Cambridge, MA:Harvard University Press,1896],pp.56-87),and the <span class="xieti">Lalitavistara</span> as rendered by Ananda K.Coomaraswamy, <span class="xieti">Buddha and the Gospel of Buddhism</span>(New York:G.P.Putnam's Sons,1916),pp.24-38.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">39　Exodus,19:3-5.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">40　Louis Ginzberg, <span class="xieti">The Legends of the Jews</span>(Philadelphia:The Jewish Publication Society of America,1911),vol.III, pp.90-94.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">41　目前这本书没有对这种情况进行历史探讨。这项任务留给了现在正处于准备中的一部作品。（这里提到的作品就是坎贝尔的四卷作品《神的面具》[The Masks of God]——原版编者注）本书涉及比较研究，不是起源研究。它的目的是展示神话本身以及圣人提出的解释和应用之间存在的本质上的相似性。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">42　Translated by Dom Ansgar Nelson, O.S.B.,<span class="xieti">in The Soul Afire</span>(New York:Pantheon Books,1944),p.303.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">43　Quoted by Epiphanius, <span class="xieti">Adversus haereses</span>, xxvi,3.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">44　参阅本书p.25的内容。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">45　这是受到佛陀保护的蛇，出现在佛陀得道后第五个星期。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">46　Alice C.Fletcher, <span class="xieti">The Hako:A Pawnee Ceremony</span>(Twenty-second Annual Report, Bureau of American Ethnology, part 2;Washington, DC,1904),pp.243-44.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">波尼族大祭司这样对弗莱彻小姐（Miss Fletcher）解释仪式中被崇拜的神祇：“在创世时应该会有一些法力较小的神。由于伟大的太阳神（Tirawa-atius）不能靠近人类，人类看不到、感觉不到他，因此允许法力较小的神出现，他们介于人和太阳神之间”（ibid.,p.27）.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">47　See Ananda K.Coomaraswamy,"Symbolism of the Dome,"<span class="xieti">The Indian Historical Quarterly</span>, vol.XIV, No.1(March 1938).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">48　John,6:55.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">49　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,10:9.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">50　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,6:56.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">51　Koran,5:108.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">52　Heraclitus, fragment 102.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">53　Heraclitus, fragment 46.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">54　William Blake, <span class="xieti">The Marriage of Heaven and Hell</span>,"Proverbs of Hell."</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">55　Leo Frobenius, <span class="xieti">Und Afrika sprach</span>(Berlin:Vita, Deutsches Verlagshaus,1912),pp.243-45.可以与《散文埃达》（<span class="xieti">Prose Edda</span>）"Skaldskaparmal"第一篇中对奥丁神（沃坦）惊人相似的描述进行对比。（"Scandinavian Classics,"vol.V, New York,1929,p.96）。可以和耶和华的命令进行对比（Exodus,32:27）：“你们每个人把刀挂在身边，在营地里出出进进，从这扇门到那扇门，每个人杀他的兄弟，杀他的同伴，杀他的邻居。”</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text_center">第一部分　英雄的历险</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text_center">01　启程</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">1　<span class="xieti">Grimm's Fairy Tales</span>, No.1,"The Frog King."</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">2　<span class="xieti">The Psychopathology of Everyday Life</span>(Standard Edition, VI;orig.1901).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">3　Evelyn Underhill, Mysticism, <span class="xieti">A Study in the Nature and Development of Man's Spiritual Consciousness</span>(New York:E.P.Dutton and Co.,1911),Part II,"The Mystic Way,"Chapter II,"The Awakening of the Self."</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">4　Sigmund Freud, <span class="xieti">Introductory Lectures on Psycho-Analysis</span>(translated by James Strachey, Standard Edition, XVI;London:Hogarth Press,1963),pp.396-97(orig.1916-17).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">5　Malory, <span class="xieti">Le Morte d'Arthur</span>, I,p.xix.追逐公鹿和看到“搜索声野兽”标志着与寻找圣杯有关的神秘事件的开始。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">6　George A.Dorsey and Alfred L.Kroeber, <span class="xieti">Traditions of the Arapaho</span>(Chicago:Field Columbia Museum, Publication 81,Anthropological Series, vol.V;1903),p.300.Reprinted in Stith Thompson's <span class="xieti">Tales of the North American Indians</span>(Cambridge, MA,1929),p.128.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">7　C.G.Jung, <span class="xieti">Psychology and Alchemy</span>(Collected Works, vol.12;New York and London,1953),pars.71,73.(Orig.1935.)</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">8　Wilhelm Stekel, <span class="xieti">Die Sprache des Traumes</span>(Wiesbaden:Verlag von J.F.Bergmann,1911),p.352.斯泰克尔博士指出血红色光的闪烁与肺结核病人咳血的想法有关。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">9　Reprinted by permission of the publishers from Henry Clarke Warren, <span class="xieti">Buddhismin Translations</span>(Harvard Oriental Series 3)(Cambridge, MA:Harvard University Press,1896),pp.56-57.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">10　Proverbs,1:24-27,32.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">11　"Spiritual books occasionally quote[this]Latin saying which has terrified more thanone soul"(Ernest Dimnet, <span class="xieti">The Art of Thinking</span>, New York:Simon and Schuster, Inc.,1929,pp.203-4).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">12　Francis Thompson, <span class="xieti">The Hound of Heaven</span>(Portland, ME:Thomas B.Mosher,1908),opening lines.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">13　Ibid.,conclusion.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">14　Ovid, <span class="xieti">Metamorphoses</span>, I,pp.504-53(translation by Frank Justus Miller, the Loeb Classical Library).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">15　参阅本书pp.2-3的内容。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">16　Jung, <span class="xieti">Psychology and Alchemy</span>, pars.58,62.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">17　<span class="xieti">Grimm's Fairy Tales</span>, No.50.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">18　<span class="xieti">The Thousand Nights and One Night</span>, Richard F.Burton translation(Bombay,1885),vol.I, pp.164-67.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">19　Genesis,19:26.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">20　Werner Zirus, Ahasverus, <span class="xieti">der ewige Jude</span>(Stoff-und Motivgeschichte der deutschen Literatur 6,Berlin and Leipzig,1930),p.1.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">21　参阅本书p.46的内容。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">22　See Otto Rank, <span class="xieti">Art and Artist</span>, translated by Charles Francis Atkinson(New York:Alfred A.Knopf, Inc.,1943),pp.40-41：“如果将神经症患者与创造性艺术家进行比较，显然前者冲动的生活受到了过度核查……两者都与普通人存在根本的差异，普通人接纳自己原本的样子，而这两者倾向于发挥他们的意志力来重新塑造自己。然而他们两者之间也存在着差异：在这种自愿的自我重塑过程中，神经症患者没有超越具有破坏性的初步工作，因此无法将整个创造过程与他自己分离，把它转化为意识形态的抽象形式。创造性艺术家则会重新创造自己，由此产生了意识形态上构建而成的自我。对艺术家而言，自我能够把创造性意志力从自己转移到这个人的意识形态表征上，因此使自我具有了客观性。必须承认这个过程在某种程度上是局限于个体自己的，不仅在于它建设性的方面，也在于它破坏性的方面。这解释了为什么几乎所有的创造性工作都会经历“神经症”性质的病态危机。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">23　Abridged from Burton, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,vol.III, pp.213-28.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">24　Bruno Gutmann, <span class="xieti">Volksbuch der Wadschagga</span>(Leipzig,1914),p.144.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">25　Washington Matthews, <span class="xieti">Navaho Legends</span>(Memoirs of the American Folklore Society, vol.V, New York,1897),p.109.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">有关英雄历险的纳瓦霍象征，参见Jeff King, Maud Oakes, and Joseph Campbell, <span class="xieti">Where the Two Came to Their Father:A Navaho War Ceremonial</span>, Bollingen Series I,2nd ed.,(Princeton, NJ:Princeton University Press,1969),pp.33-49;Joseph Campbell, <span class="xieti">The Inner Reaches of Outer Space:Myth as Metaphor and as Religion</span>(Novato, CA:New World Library,2002),pp.63-70;and Joseph Campbell,"The Spirit Land,"<span class="xieti">Mythos:The Shaping of Our Modern Tradition</span>(Silver Spring, MD:Acorn Media,2007)—Ed.]</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">26　Dante,"Paradiso,"XXXIII,12-21(translation by Charles Eliot Norton, op.cit.,vol.III, p.252;quoted by permission of Houghton Mifflin Company, publishers).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">27　See Oswald Spengler, <span class="xieti">The Decline of the West</span>, translated by Charles Francis Atkinson(New York:Alfred A.Knopf, Inc.,1926-28),vol.I, p.144."Supposing,"adds Spengler,"that Napoleon himself, as'empirical person,'had fallen at Marengo—then that which he <span class="xieti">signified</span> would have been actualized in some other form."在英雄做出划时代行为期间，在某种意义和某种程度上，他失去了个性，化身成为文化过程的推动力；"between himself as a fact and the other facts there is a harmony of metaphysical rhythm"(<span class="xieti">ibid</span>.,p.142).This corresponds to Thomas Carlyle's idea of the Hero King, as"Ableman"(<span class="xieti">On Heroes, Hero Worship and the Heroic in History</span>, Lecture VI).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">28　在希腊化时代，赫耳墨斯和托特的融合成了赫耳墨斯魔法护神（即“伟大的三次赫耳墨斯”）的形象，它被认为是所有艺术的庇护者和老师，特别是炼金术。“密闭地”密封曲颈瓶（其中放置了神秘的金属）被认为是一个可以与神话领域相媲美的突出力量的特殊领域；在它之中的金属经历了奇怪的变形，这象征着超自然监护下的灵魂。赫耳墨斯是启蒙的古老奥秘的主人，代表神圣智慧的下降到世界，也代表了神圣的救世主的化身（see pp.299-303）。（See C.G.Jung, <span class="xieti">Psychology and Alchemy</span>, part III,"Religious Ideas in Alchemy."[Orig.1936.]For the retort, see par.338.For Hermes Trismegistus, see par.173 and index, s.v.）</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">29　Wilhelm Stekel, <span class="xieti">Die Sprache des Traumes</span>, pp.70-71.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">30　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,p.71.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">31　Koran,37:158.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">32　Adapted from Burton, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,vol.III, pp.223-30.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">33　与梦境中的蛇（第52页）进行比较。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">34　Leonhard S.Schultze, <span class="xieti">Aus Namaland und Kalahari</span>(Jena,1907),p.392.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">35　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,pp.404,448.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">36　David Clement Scott, <span class="xieti">A Cyclopaedic Dictionary of the Mang'anja Language Spoken in British Central Africa</span>(Edinburgh,1892),p.97.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">与下面这个21岁男孩的梦境进行比较：“一天晚上我梦到了一只脚。我以为它躺在地上，却没有料到被它绊倒了。它看起来和我的脚的形状相同。这只脚突然跳起来，开始追赶我。我好像是跳出了窗户，跑过院子来到街上，我尽可能地快跑。我想我跑到了伍利奇（Woolwich），它突然追上了我并摇晃我，我醒了。我梦到过这只脚好几次了。”这个男孩听说他的那个身为水手的父亲在海中出了事故，磕坏了他的脚踝。（C.W.Kimmins, <span class="xieti">Children's Dreams, An Unexplored Land</span>, London:George Allen and Unwin, Ltd.,1937,p.107）.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">弗洛伊德认为：“脚是古老的性象征，甚至出现在神话中。”（<span class="xieti">Three Essays on the Theory of Sexuality</span>, p.155）.我们应该注意，俄狄浦斯这个名字的意思就是“肿胀的脚”。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">37　Compare V.J.Mansikka, in Hastings'<span class="xieti">Encyclopaedia of Religion and Ethics</span>, vol.IV, p.628;article"Demons and Spirits(Slavic)."几位权威学者所写的一组文章被收集在上述书中“恶魔与精灵”的标题之下（分别探讨了非洲人、大洋洲人种、亚述-巴比伦人种、佛教徒、凯尔特人、中国人、基督教徒、科普特人、希腊人、希伯来人、耆那教徒、日本人、犹太人、伊斯兰教徒、波斯人、罗马人、斯拉夫人、日耳曼人的恶魔与精灵），它们是这一主题很好的入门读物。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">38　Ibid.,p.629.可以与罗蕾莱（Lorelei）进行比较。曼西卡（Mansikka）对斯拉夫人森林、田野和水泽精灵的探讨的基础是哈努斯·马沙尔（Hanus Machal）的综合性著作《斯拉夫神话绘图本》（<span class="xieti">Nákres slovanského bájeslovi</span>）（布拉格，1891年）。在马沙尔的《斯拉夫神话》（<span class="xieti">Slavic Mythology</span>）中可以看到这本书的英文节略本。（<span class="xieti">The Mythology of All Races</span>, vol.III, Boston,1918）.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">39　Wilhelm Stekel, <span class="xieti">Fortschritte und Technik der Traumdeutung</span>(Vienna-Leipzig-Bern:Verlag für Medizin, Weidmann und Cie.,1935),p.37.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">40　A.R.Radcliffe-Brown, <span class="xieti">The Andaman Islanders</span>(2nd ed.,Cambridge University Press,1933),pp.175-77.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">41　R.H.Codrington, <span class="xieti">The Melanesians, Their Anthropology and Folklore</span>(Oxford University Press,1891),p.189.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">42　<span class="xieti">Jataka</span>,1:1.Abridged from translation by Eugene Watson Burlingame, <span class="xieti">Buddhist Parables</span>(Yale University Press,1922),pp.32-34.Reprinted by permission of the publishers.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">43　Coomaraswamy, <span class="xieti">Journal of American Folklore</span> 57,1944,p.129.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">44　<span class="xieti">Jataka</span>,55:1,272-75.Adapted, with slight abridgment, from the translation of Eugene Watson Burlingame, op.cit.,pp.41-44.Reprinted by permission of Yale University Press, publishers.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">45　Nicholas of Cusa, De visione Dei,9,11;cited by Ananda K.Coomaraswamy,"On the One and Only Transmigrant"(<span class="xieti">Supplement to the Journal of the American Oriental Society</span>, April-June,1944）,p.25.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">46　Ovid, <span class="xieti">Metamorphoses</span>, Ⅶ, p.62;XV, p.338.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">47　参阅本书p.58的内容。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">48　Longfellow, <span class="xieti">The Song of Hiawatha</span>, Ⅷ.朗费罗笔下的易洛魁人（Iroquois）酋长海华沙的冒险故事应该属于阿尔冈昆（Algonquin）文化中的英雄兔精（Manabozho）。海华沙是16世纪一个真实的历史人物。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">49　Leo Frobenius, <span class="xieti">Das Zeitalter des Sonnengottes</span>(Berlin,1904),p.85.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">50　Henry Callaway, <span class="xieti">Nursery Tales and Traditions of the Zulus</span>(London:Trübner,1868),p.331.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">51　Ananda K.Coomaraswamy,"Akimcanna:Self-Naughting"（<span class="xieti">New Indian Antiquary</span>, vol.III, Bombay,1940),p.6,note 14,citing and discussing Thomas Aquinas, Summa <span class="xieti">Theologica</span>, I,p.63,3.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">52　Sir James G.Frazer, <span class="xieti">The Golden Bough</span>(one-volume edition),pp.347-49.Copyright1922 by the Macmillan Company and used with their permission.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">53　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,p.280.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">54　Duarte Barbosa, <span class="xieti">A Description of the Coasts of East Africa and Malabar in the Beginning of the Sixteenth Century</span>(London:Hakluyt Society,1866),p.172;cited by Frazer, op.cit.,pp.274-75.Reprinted by permission of the Macmillan Company, publishers.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text_center">02　启蒙</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">1　Apuleius, <span class="xieti">The Golden Ass</span>(Modern Library edition),pp.131-41.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">2　Knud Leem, <span class="xieti">Beskrivelse over Finmarkens Lapper</span>(Copenhagen,1767),pp.475-78.An English translation will be found in John Pinkerton, <span class="xieti">A General Collection of the Best and Most Interesting Voyages and Travels in All Parts of the World</span>(London,1808),vol.I, pp.477-78.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">3　E.J.Jessen, <span class="xieti">Afhandling om de Norske Finners og Lappers Hedenske Religion</span>, p.31.This work is included in Leem's volume, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,as an appendix with independent pagi-nation.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">4　Uno Harva, <span class="xieti">Die religi?sen Vorstellungen der altaischen V?lker</span>("Folklore Fellows Communications,"No.125,Helsinki,1938),pp.558-59;following G.N.Potanin, <span class="xieti">Oˇcerki?everozapodnoy Mongolii</span>(St.Petersburg,1881),vol.IV, pp.64-65.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">5　Géza Róheim, <span class="xieti">The Origin and Function of Culture</span>(Nervous and Mental Disease Monographs, No.69),pp.38-39.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">6　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,p.38.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">7　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,p.51.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">8　Underhill, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,Part II, Chapter III.Compare p.42,note 3.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">9　Wilhelm Stekel, <span class="xieti">Fortschritte und Technik der Traumdeutung</span>, p.124.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">10　<span class="xieti">Svedenborgs Dr?mmar</span>,1774,"Jemte andra hans anteckningar efter original-handskrifter meddelade af G.E.Klemming"(Stockholm,1859),quoted in Ignaz Je?ower, <span class="xieti">Das Buch der Tr?ume</span>(Berlin:Ernst Rowohlt Verlag,1928),p.97.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">11　Je?ower, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,p.166.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">12　Plutarch, <span class="xieti">Themistocles</span>,26;Je?ower, op.cit.,p.18.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">13　Stekel, <span class="xieti">Fortschritte und Technik der Traumdeutung</span>, p.150.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">14　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,p.153.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">15　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,p.45.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">16　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,p.208.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">17　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,p.216.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">18　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,p.224.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">19　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,p.159.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">20　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,p.21.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">21　Stekel, <span class="xieti">Die Sprache des Traumes</span>, p.200.See also Heinrich Zimmer, <span class="xieti">The King and the Corpse</span>, ed.J.Campbell(New York:Bollingen Series,1948),pp.171-72;also D.L.Coomaraswamy,"The Perilous Bridge of Welfare,"<span class="xieti">Harvard Journal of Asiatic Studies</span> 8.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">22　Stekel, <span class="xieti">Die Sprache des Traumes</span>, p.287.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">23　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,p.286.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">24　Koran,2:214.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">25　S.N.Kramer, <span class="xieti">Sumerian Mythology</span>(American Philosophical Society Memoirs, vol.XXI;Philadelphia,1944),pp.86-93.苏美尔神话对西方而言有着独特的重要性，因为它是巴比伦、亚述、腓尼基和圣经传说的来源（由圣经传说产生了伊斯兰教和基督教），而且对异教的凯尔特人、希腊人、罗马人、斯拉夫人和德国人也具有重要的影响。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">26　Jeremiah Curtin, <span class="xieti">Myths and Folk Lore of Ireland</span>(Boston:Little, Brown and Company,1890),pp.101-6.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">27　参阅本书pp.52-53的内容。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">28　Ovid, <span class="xieti">Metamorphoses</span>, III,138-252.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">29　Cf.J.C.Flügel, <span class="xieti">The Psycho Analytic Study of the Family</span>("The International Psycho-Analytical Library,"No.3,4th edition;London:The Hogarth Press,1931),chapters 12 and 13.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">福卢格尔（Flügel）教授说：“一方面思想、精神或灵魂的概念与父亲或男性概念之间存在着普遍的联系；另一方面，身体或物质的概念（materia—属于母亲）与母亲或女性主义的概念之间存在着普遍的联系。由于这种联系，与母亲有关的情感和情绪压抑（在犹太教-基督教的一神论中）引发了一种倾向，那就是对人类身体、地球和整个物质宇宙采取的不信任、蔑视、厌恶或敌对的态度。同时还有存在着一种抬高并过度强调精神要素的倾向，无论精神要素是人类的还是万物的。哲学中很多明显的唯心主义倾向之所以对很多人具有吸引力，可能是因为这种厌恶母亲的反应的升华，而更教条式的、更狭隘的唯物主义形式可能代表了回归到最初与母亲相关的被压抑的情感。”（<span class="xieti">ibid</span>.,p.145,note 2）.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">30　<span class="xieti">The Gospel of Sri Ramakrishna</span>, translated into English with an introduction by Swami Nikhilananda(New York,1942),p.9.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">31　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,pp.21-22.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">32　Standish H.O'Grady, <span class="xieti">Silva Gadelica</span>(London:Williams and Norgate,1892),vol.II, pp.370-72.Variant versions will be found in Chaucer's <span class="xieti">Canterbury Tales</span>,"The Tale of the Wyf of Bathe";in Gower's <span class="xieti">Tale of Florent</span>;in the mid-fifteenth-century poem, <span class="xieti">The Weddynge of Sir Gawen and Dame Ragnell</span>;and in the seventeenth-century ballad, <span class="xieti">The Marriage of Sir Gawaine</span>.See W.F.Bryan and Germaine Dempster, <span class="xieti">Sources and Analogues of Chaucer's Canterbury Tales</span>(Chicago,1941).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">33　Guido Guinicelli di Magnano(1230-75?),"Of the Gentle Heart,"translation by Dante Gabriel Rossetti, <span class="xieti">Dante and His Circle</span>(London:Ellis and White, edition of 1874),p.291.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">34　Antiphons for the Feast of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary(August 15),at Vespers:from the Roman Missal.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">35　<span class="xieti">Hamlet</span>, Act I, scene ii, ll.129-37.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">36　Sophocles, <span class="xieti">Oedipus Coloneus</span>,1615-17.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">37　Shankaracharya, <span class="xieti">Vivekachudamani</span>, pp.396 and 414,translated by Swami Madhavananda(Mayavati,1932).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">38　Jacobus de Voragine, <span class="xieti">The Golden Legend</span>, LXXVI,"Saint Petronilla, Virgin."(Compare the tale of Daphne, pp.50-51.)后来的教会不愿认为圣彼得生过一个孩子，因此把佩德罗尼拉说成是他的受监护者。（Chicago,1941）.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">39　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,CXVII.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">40　Gustave Flaubert, <span class="xieti">La tentation de Saint Antoine(La reine de Saba)</span>.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">41　Cotton Mather, <span class="xieti">Wonders of the Invisible World</span>(Boston,1693),p.63.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">42　Jonathan Edwards, <span class="xieti">Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God</span>(Boston,1742).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">43　Coomaraswamy, <span class="xieti">The Dance of Siva</span>(New York,1917),pp.56-66.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">44　Zimmer, <span class="xieti">Myths and Symbols in Indian Art and Civilization</span>, pp.151-75.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">45　圣线是印度三个高种姓（即所谓的再生）的成员穿戴的一条棉线。圣线经过头部和右手臂，搭在左肩上，再经过身体达到右臀部（胸部和背部）。这象征着再生者的重生。圣线本身代表的阈限或太阳门，所以再生者同时居住在时间和永恒中。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">46　For a discussion of this syllable, see p.228.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">47　Matthews, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,pp.110-13.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">48　Ovid, <span class="xieti">Metamorphoses</span>, II(adapted from Miller:Loeb Library).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">49　Kimmins, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,p.22.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">50　Wood, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,pp.218-19.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">51　W.Lloyd Warner, <span class="xieti">A Black Civilization</span>(New York and London:Harper and Brothers,1937),pp.260-85.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">52　Géza Róheim, <span class="xieti">The Eternal Ones of the Dream</span>, pp.72-73.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">53　Koran,4:116,4:117.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">54　Sir Baldwin Spencer and F.J.Gillen, <span class="xieti">The Arunta</span>(London:Macmillan and Co.,1927),vol.I, pp.201-3.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">55　Róheim, <span class="xieti">The Eternal Ones of the Dream</span>, pp.49 ff.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">56　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,p.75.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">57　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,p.227,citing R.and C.Berndt,"A Preliminary Report of Field Work in the Ooldea Region, Western South Australia,"<span class="xieti">Oceania</span> XII(1942),p.323.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">58　Róheim, <span class="xieti">The Eternal Ones of the Dream</span>, pp.227-28,citing D.Bates, <span class="xieti">The Passing of the Aborigines</span>(1939),pp.41-43.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">59　Róheim, <span class="xieti">The Eternal Ones of the Dream</span>, p.231.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">60　R.H.Mathews,"The Walloonggura Ceremony,"<span class="xieti">Queensland Geographical Journal</span>, N.S.,XV(1899-1900),p.70;cited by Róheim, <span class="xieti">The Eternal Ones of the Dream</span>, p.232.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">61　K.Langloh Parker, <span class="xieti">The Euahlayi Tribe</span>,1905,pp.72-73;cited by Róheim, <span class="xieti">The Eternal Ones of the Dream</span>, p.232.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">62　John Layard, <span class="xieti">Stone Men of Malekula</span>(London:Chatto and Windus,1942).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">63　W.F.J.Knight, in his <span class="xieti">Cumaean Gates</span>(Oxford:B.Blackwell,1936).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">64　W.J.Perry, <span class="xieti">The Children of the Sun</span>(New York:E.P.Dutton and Co.,1923).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">65　Jane Harrison, <span class="xieti">Themis:A Study of the Social Origins of Greek Religion</span>(2nd revised edi-tion;Cambridge University Press,1927).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">66　这是坎贝尔曾多次谈到的问题，这点在一篇名为“神话起源”（Mythogenesis）的文章中尤其突出，它发表于<span class="xieti">The Flight of the Wild Gander</span>(third edition;Novato, CA:New World Library,2001)。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">67　Euripides, <span class="xieti">The Bacchae</span>,526 f.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">68　Aeschylus, Figure 57(Nauck);cited by Jane Harrison(Themis, p.61)in herdiscussion of the role of the bull-roarer in classical and Australian rites of initiation.For an introduction to the subject of the bull-roarer, see Andrew Lang, <span class="xieti">Custom and Myth</span>(2nd revised edition;London:Longmans, Green, and Co.,1885),pp.29-44.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">69　All of these are described and discussed at length by Sir James G.Frazer in <span class="xieti">The Golden Bough</span>.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">70　Epistles to the Hebrews,9:13-14.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">71　Le P.A.Capus des Pères-Blancs,"Contes, chants et proverbes des Basumbwa dansl'Afrique Orientale,"<span class="xieti">Zeitschrift für afrikanische und oceanische Sprachen</span>.Vol.III(Berlin,1897),pp.363-64.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">72　Koran,10:31.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">73　参阅本书p.57的内容。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">74　参阅本书pp.36-37的内容。巴桑布瓦人（伟大酋长死神的故事）和瓦萨加人（凯亚津巴的故事）都是东非人；约鲁巴人（埃德舒的故事）则居住在西海岸殖民地尼日利亚。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">75　Koran,6:59,6:60.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">76　Gospel According to Luke,2:7.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">77　Ovid, <span class="xieti">Metamorphoses</span>, VIII, pp.618-724.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">78　Koran,2:115.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">79　Katha Upani?ad,3:12.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">80　Gospel According to Thomas,77.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">81　Book of Job,40:7-14.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">82　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,42:5-6.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">83　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,42:16-17.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">84　Leon Stein,"Hassidic Music,"<span class="xieti">The Chicago Jewish Forum</span>, vol.II, No.1(Fall 1943),p.16.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">85　<span class="xieti">Pranja Paramita Hridaya Sutra</span>;"Sacred Books of the East,"vol.XLIX, Part II, p.148;also, p.154.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">86　<span class="xieti">Vajracchedika</span>("The Diamond Cutter"),17;ibid.,p.134.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">87　Compare p.73.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">88　<span class="xieti">AmitayurDhyana Sutra</span>,19;"Sacred Books of the East,"vol.XLIX, Part II, pp.182-83.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">89　"To men I am Hermes;to women I appear as Aphrodite:I bear the emblems of bothmy parents"(<span class="xieti">Anthologia Graeca ad Fidem Codices</span>, vol.II).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">"One part of him is his sire's, all else he has of his mother"(Martial, <span class="xieti">Epigrams</span>,4,174;Loeb Library, vol.II, p.501).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">奥维德对赫马佛洛狄忒斯的描述出现在<span class="xieti">the Metamorphoses</span>, IV, pp.288 ff.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">赫马佛洛狄忒斯的许多经典形象被流传至今。See Hugh Hampton Young, <span class="xieti">Genital Abnormalities, Hermaphroditism, and Related Adrenal Diseases</span>(Baltimore:Williams and Wilkins,1937),Chapter I,"Hermaphroditism in Literature and Art."</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">90　Plato, <span class="xieti">Symposium</span>,178.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">91　Book of Genesis,1:27.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">92　<span class="xieti">Midrash</span>, commentary on Genesis, Rabbah 8:1.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">93　参阅本书p.74的内容。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">94　参阅本书pp.245-248的内容。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">95　与詹姆斯·乔伊斯的这段话进行比较：“在天国的天道中……不再有婚姻，不再有获得荣耀的人，也就是雌雄同体的天使。”（<span class="xieti">Ulysses</span>, Modern Library edition, p.210）.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">96　Sophocles, <span class="xieti">Oedipus Tyrannus</span>.See also Ovid, <span class="xieti">Metamorphoses</span>, III, pp.324 ff.,511,and 516.For other examples of the hermaphrodite as priest, god, or seer, see Herodotus,4,67(Rawlinson edition, vol.III, pp.46-47);Theophrastus, <span class="xieti">Characteres</span>,16.10-11;and J.Pinkerton's <span class="xieti">Voyage and Travels</span>, Chapter 8,p.427,"A New Account of the East Indies,"by Alexander Hamilton.These are cited by Young, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,pp.2 and 9.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">97　See Zimmer, <span class="xieti">Myths and Symbols in Indian Art and Civilization</span>, Figure 70.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">98　参阅本书的图34.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">99　See B.Spencer and F.J.Gillen, <span class="xieti">Native Tribes of Central Australia</span>(London,1899),p.263;Róheim, <span class="xieti">The Eternal Ones of the Dream</span>, pp.164-65.阴茎下切口会形成人造的、类似于雌雄同体人的那种尿道下裂。(See the portrait of the hermaphrodite Marie Angé,in Young, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,p.20.)</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">100　Róheim, <span class="xieti">The Eternal Ones of the Dream</span>, p.94.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">101　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,pp.218-19.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">102　与以下法藏比丘菩萨的形象进行比较：“他的口中吐出比檀香木更香的芳香。他的所有毛孔散发出莲花的香味。对每个人来说他都是令人愉快、亲切美好的，他天生具有鲜艳丰富的色彩。一些美好的印记装饰着他的身体，他的毛孔和手掌中冒出各种花形的宝贵装饰，还冒出香气、花环、油膏、雨伞、旗帜以及各种乐器奏出的音乐。从他的手掌中还流出各种菜肴、饮料、食物、糖果和各种可喜之物。”（<span class="xieti">The Larger Sukhavati Vyuha</span>,10,"Sacred Books of the East,"vol.XLIX, Part II, pp.26-27).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">103　Róheim, War, <span class="xieti">Crime, and the Covenant</span>, p.57.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">104　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,pp.48-68.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">105　First Book of Samuel,17:26.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">106　Koran,4:104.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">107　"For hatred does not cease by hatred at any time:hatred ceases by love, this is an oldrule"(from the Buddhist <span class="xieti">Dhammapada</span>,1:5,"Sacred Books of the East,"vol.X, Part I, p.5;translation by F.Max Müller).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">108　Gospel According to Luke,6:27-36.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">109　Reprinted by Professor Robert Phillips, <span class="xieti">American Government and Its Problems</span>, Houghton Mifflin Company,1941,and by Dr.Karl Menninger, Love <span class="xieti">Against Hate</span>, Harcourt, Brace and Company,1942,p.211.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">110　Gospel According to Matthew,22:37-40;Mark,12:28-34;Luke,10:25-37.据说耶稣曾委派他的使者去“向万国万民传播福音”（《马太福音》第28章第19节），但不是去迫害和掠夺，也不是用“世俗的武器”去对付那些不听教诲的人。“我派你们作为羊进入狼群，因此你们要像蛇一样聪明，像鸽子一样无害。”（<span class="xieti">ibid</span>.,10:16）.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">111　Gospel According to Matthew,7:1.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">112　"And as troops of robbers wait for a man, so the company of priests murder in theway of consent……They make the king glad with their wickedness, and the princes with their lies"(Hosea,6:9;7:3）.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">113　Menninger, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,pp.195-196.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">114　Swami Nikhilananda, <span class="xieti">The Gospel of Sri Ramakrishna</span>, New York,1941,p.559.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">115　Rumi, <span class="xieti">Mathnawi</span>,2.2525.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">116　"The Hymn of the Final Precepts of the Great Saint and Bodhisattva Milarepa"(c.a.d.1051-1135),from the <span class="xieti">JetsünKahbum</span>, or Biographical History of Jetsün-Milarepa, according to Lama Kazi Dawa-Samdup's English rendering, edited by W.Y.Evans-Wentz, <span class="xieti">Tibet's Great Yogi Milarepa</span>(Oxford University Press,1928),p.285.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">117　"The Hymn of the Yogic Precepts of Milarepa,"<span class="xieti">ibid</span>.,p.273.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">118　Evans-Wentz,"Hymn of Milarepa in praise of his teacher,"p.137.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">119　《奥义书》也常常表达了相同的观点，也就是“这个自我把自己给予那个自我，那个自我把自己给予这个自我。这样他们获得了彼此。他以这种形式得到了那边的世界，以那种形式体验到了这个世界”（<span class="xieti">Aitareya Aranyaka</span>,2.3.7）.伊斯兰教的神秘教派也出现了这个观点：“30年来超凡的神是我的镜子，现在我是我自己的镜子，也就是我不再是过去的我，超凡的神是他自己的镜子。我说我是我自己的镜子，神用我的舌头说话，而我消失了。”（Bayazid, as cited in <span class="xieti">The Legacy of Islam</span>, T.W.Arnold and A.Guillaume, editors, Oxford Press,1931，p.216）.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">120　"I came forth from Bayazid-ness as a snake from its skin.Then I looked.I saw thatlover, beloved, and love are one, for in the world of unity all can be one"(Bayazid, <span class="xieti">loc.cit</span>.）.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">121　Book of Hosea,6:1-3.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">122　Bhadaranyaka Upaniad,1.4.3.See p.239.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">123　Ananda K.Coomaraswamy, <span class="xieti">Hinduism and Buddhism</span>(New York:The Philosophical Library, no date),p.63.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">124　Sigmund Freud, <span class="xieti">Beyond the Pleasure Principle</span>(translated by James Strachey;Standard Edition, XVIII;London:The Hogarth Press,1955).See also Karl Menninger, <span class="xieti">Love against Hate</span>, p.262.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">125　Vajracchedika S?tra,32;see"Sacred Books of the East,"<span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,p.144.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">126　The smaller Praj?aparamita Hdaya Sutra;<span class="xieti">ibid</span>.,p.153.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">127　“永生不死之物与终有一死之物和谐地相混合，因为它们既不是一体的，也不是分离的。”（Ashvaghosha）.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">库马拉斯瓦米博士在引用这些文字时写道：“以下的格言非常有力地表达了这个观点‘罪恶即智慧，成为的领域也是涅槃’。”（Ananda K.Coomaraswamy, <span class="xieti">Buddha and the Gospel of Buddhism</span>, New York:G.P.Putnam's Sons,1916，p.245）.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">128　Bhagavad G?ta,6:29，6:31.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">这代表了伊夫林·恩德希尔（Evelyn Underhill）所说的“神秘方式的目标：真正统一的生活：神圣繁殖力的状态：神化的完美实现。”（<span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,passim）.然而恩德希尔像汤因比教授一样（见11页），犯了一个普遍的错误，认为这是基督教特有的理想。萨尔莫尼（Salmony）教授写道：“可以肯定地说，到目前为止自作主张的需要歪曲了西方的判断。”（Alfred Salmony,"Die Rassenfrage in der Indienforschung,"<span class="xieti">Sozialistische Monatshefte</span>,8，Berlin,1926，p.534）.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">129　Coomaraswamy, <span class="xieti">Hinduism and Buddhism</span>, p.74.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">130　See E.T.C.Werner, <span class="xieti">A Dictionary of Chinese Mythology</span>(Shanghai,1932),p.163.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">131　See Okakura Kakuzo, <span class="xieti">The Book of Tea</span>(New York,1906).See also Daisetz Teitaro Suzuki, <span class="xieti">Essays in Zen Buddhism</span>(London,1927),and Lafcadio Hearn, <span class="xieti">Japan</span>(New York,1904).[See also Campbell's exploration of the symbolism of the tea ceremony in <span class="xieti">Myths of Light:Eastern Metaphors of the Eternal</span>, edited by David Kudler(Novato, CA:New World Library,2003),pp.133-36.—Ed.]</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">132　Morris Edward Opler, <span class="xieti">Myths and Tales of the Jicarilla Apache Indians</span>(Memoirs of the American Folklore Society, vol.XXXI,1938),p.110.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">133　和本书p.13的内容比较。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">134　参阅本书p.98的内容。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">135　参阅本书p.97的内容。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">136　See Zimmer, <span class="xieti">Myths and Symbols in Indian Art and Civilization</span>, pp.210-14.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">137　Compare the drum of creation in the hand of the Hindu Dancing Siva, p.108.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">138　Curtin, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,pp.106-7.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">139　See Melanie Klein, <span class="xieti">The Psycho Analysis of Children</span>, The International Psycho-Analytical Library, No.27(1937).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">140　Róheim, <span class="xieti">War, Crime, and the Covenant</span>, pp.137-38.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">141　Róheim, <span class="xieti">The Origin and Function of Culture</span>, p.50.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">142　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,pp.48-50.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">143　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,p.50.Compare the indestructibility of the Siberian shaman(see p.82),drawingcoals out of the fire with his bare hands and beating his legs with an ax.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">144　See Frazer's discussion of the external soul, op.cit.,pp.667-91.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">145　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,p.671.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">146　Pierce, Dreams and Personality, p.298.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">147　"The Descent of the Sun,"in F.W.Bain, <span class="xieti">A Digit of the Moon</span>(New York:G.P.Putnam's Sons,1910),pp.213-325.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">148　Róheim, <span class="xieti">The Eternal Ones of the Dream</span>, p.237.这个护身符就是那个年轻人的图腾祖先，被称为丘闰伽（tjurunga）。年轻人在接受割礼时得到了另一个丘闰伽，代表他的母性图腾祖先。在更早的时候，在他出生时，人们会在他的摇篮里放一个具有保护作用的丘闰伽。牛吼器是丘闰伽的变形。罗海姆博士写道：“丘闰伽是有形的替代品，在中部澳大利亚的信仰中，与之最密切相关的超自然存在物是土著们无形的替代品……像丘闰伽一样，这些超自然存在物被称为它们所保护的真正人类的替身。”（<span class="xieti">ibid</span>.,p.98）.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">149　Book of Isaiah,66:10-12.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">150　Ginzberg, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,vol.I, pp.20,26-30.See the extensive notes on the Messianic ban-quet in Ginzberg, vol.V, pp.43-46.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">151　Dante,"Paradiso,"II,1-9.Translation by Norton, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,vol.III, p.10;bypermission of the Houghton Mifflin Company, publishers.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">152　Ramayana, I,45,Mahabharata, I,18,Matsya Purana,249-51,and many other texts.See Zimmer, <span class="xieti">Myths and Symbols in Indian Art and Civilization</span>, pp.105 ff.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">153　Marco Pallis, <span class="xieti">Peaks and Lamas</span>(4th edition;London:Cassell and Co.,1946),p.324.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">154　<span class="xieti">Shri Chakra Sambhara Tantra</span>, translated from the Tibetan by Lama Kazi Dawa-Samdup, edited by Sir John Woodroffe(pseudonym Arthur Avalon),Volume VII of"Tantric Texts"(London,1919),p.41."万一有人怀疑这些形象化神祇的神性，”文章继续写道，“人们应该说，‘这位女神只是肉体的回忆，’要记住是神祇形成了道路。”（loc.cit.）.For a word about Tantra, see p.95 and pp.145-47(Tantric Buddhism）.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">155　Compare, e.g.,C.G.Jung,"Archetypes of the Collective Unconscious"(orig.1934;Collected Works, vol.9,part i;New York and London,1959).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">福卢格尔写道，“或许有很多人还持有这样的观点，认为准人形的天父是超智能的现实，尽管这类天父的纯精神起源已经变得很明显。”(<span class="xieti">The Psycho Analytic Study of the Family</span>, p.236).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">156　"Paradiso,"XXXIII,82 ff.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">157　参阅本书p.151的内容。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">158　J.F.Stimson, <span class="xieti">The Legends of Maui and Tahaki</span>(Bernice P.Bishop Museum Bulletin, No.127;Honolulu,1934),pp.19-21.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">159　Bruno Meissner,"Ein altbabylonisches Fragment des Gilgamosepos,"<span class="xieti">Mitteilungender vorderasiatischen Gesellschaft</span>, VII,1;Berlin,1902,p.9.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">160　See, for instance, the Katha Upani Sad,1:21,23-25.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">161　The above rendering is based on P.Jensen, <span class="xieti">Assyrischbabylonische Mythen und Epen</span>(Kellinschriftliche Bibliothek, VI, I;Berlin,1900),pp.116-273.The verses quoted ap-pear on pp.223,251,251-53.Jensen's version is a line-for-line translation of the prin-cipal extant text, an Assyrian version from King Ashurbanipal's library(668-626 b.C.).Fragments of the very much older Babylonian version(see p.158)and still more ancient Sumerian original(third millennium b.C.)have also been discovered and deciphered.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">162　Ko Hung(also known as Pao Pu Tzu),<span class="xieti">Nei P'ien</span>, Chapter VII(translation quotedfrom Obed Simon Johnson, <span class="xieti">A Study of Chinese Alchemy</span>, Shanghai,1928,p.63).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">葛洪还发明了其他几种有趣的配方，有一种能让身体感到“非常轻松舒适”，另一种能赋予人在水上行走的能力。若想了解葛洪在中国哲学中的地位，请参阅Alfred Forke,"Ko Hung, der Philosoph und Alchimist,"<span class="xieti">Archiv für Geschichte der Philosophie</span>, XLI,1-2(Berlin,1932),pp.115-26.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">163　Herbert A.Giles, <span class="xieti">A Chinese Biographical Dictionary</span>(London and Shanghai,1898),p.372.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">164　一条密宗格言。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">165　Lao Tze, <span class="xieti">Tao Teh Ching</span>,16(translation by Dwight Goddard, <span class="xieti">Laotzu's Tao and Wu Wei</span>, New York,1919,p.18).Compare p.131.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">166　"Paradiso,"XXXIII,49-57(translation by Norton, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,vol.III, pp.253-54,byper-mission of Houghton Mifflin Company, publishers).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">167　Kena Upani Sad,1:3(translation by Swami Sharvananda;Sri Ramakrishna Math, Mylapore, Madras,1932).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">168　Poetic Edda,"Hovamol,"139(translation by Henry Adams Bellows, The American-Scandinavian Foundation, New York,1923).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">169　<span class="xieti">Jataka</span>, Introduction, i,75(reprinted by permission of the publishers from Henry Clarke Warren, <span class="xieti">Buddhism in Translations</span>[Harvard Oriental Series 3],Cambridge, MA:Harvard University Press,1896,pp.82-83).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text_center">03　回归</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">1　<span class="xieti">Visn￡u Purana,23;Bhagavata Pura￡a,10:51;Harìvansha,114</span>.The above is based on the rendering by Heinrich Zimmer, <span class="xieti">Maya, der indische Mythos</span>(Stuttgart and Berlin,1936),pp.89-99.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">与非洲的埃德舒、世界魔术师奎师那、波利尼西亚魔术师毛伊比较。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">2　"Taliesin,"translated by Lady Charlotte Guest in The <span class="xieti">Mabinogion</span>(Everyman's Library, No.97,pp.263-64).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">3　See Gertrude Schoepperle, <span class="xieti">Tristan and Isolt:A Study of the Sources of the Romance</span>,(London and Frankfurt-am-Main,1913).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">4　Harva, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,pp.543-44;quoting"Pervyi buryatsii?aman Morgon-Kara,"<span class="xieti">Isvestiya Vostocno Siberskago Otdela Russkago Geograficeskago Obscestva</span>, XI,1-2(Irkutsk,1880),pp.87 ff.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">5　John White, <span class="xieti">The Ancient History of the Maori, His Mythology and Traditions</span>(Wellington,1886-89),vol.II, pp.167-71.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">6　<span class="xieti">Grimm's Fairy Tales</span>, No.79.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">7　C.G.Jung, <span class="xieti">The Integration of the Personality</span>(New York,1939),p.59.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">8　See Apollonios of Rhodes, <span class="xieti">Argonautika</span>:the flight is recounted in Book IV.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">9　<span class="xieti">Kojiki</span>,"Records of Ancient Matters"(a.d.712),adapted from the translation by C.H.Chamberlain, <span class="xieti">Transactions of The Asiatic Society of Japan</span>, vol.X, Supplement(Yokohama,1882),pp.24-28.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">10　Jaiminiya Upanisad Brahmana,3.28.5.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">11　Frobenius, <span class="xieti">Das Zeitalter des Sonnengottes</span>, pp.85-87.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">12　Tomobe-no-Yasutaka, <span class="xieti">Shinto Shoden Kuju</span>.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">13　<span class="xieti">Shinto Gobusho</span>.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">14　Izawa-Nagahide, <span class="xieti">Shinto Ameno Nubokono Ki</span>.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">15　Ichijo-Kaneyoshi, <span class="xieti">Nihonshoki Sanso</span>.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">16　Urabe-no-Kanekuni.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">17　All of the quotations above will be found in Genchi Kato, <span class="xieti">What Is Shinto</span>?(Tokyo:Maruzen Company Ltd.,1935);see also Lafcadio Hearn, <span class="xieti">Japan, an Attempt at Interpretation</span>(New York:Grosset and Dunlap,1904).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">18　<span class="xieti">Kojiki</span>, after Chamberlain, op.cit.,pp.52-59.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">19　Kramer, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,pp.87,95.The conclusion of the poem, this valuable document ofthe sources of the myths and the symbols of our civilization, is forever lost.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">20　Gospel According to Matthew,26:51;Gospel According to Mark,14:47;Gospel According to John,18:10.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">21　Mandukya Upanisad,5.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">22　Washington Irving, <span class="xieti">The Sketch Book</span>,"Rip van Winkle."</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">23　Book of Genesis,5.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">24　Curtin, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,pp.332-33.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">25　From Sir James G.Frazer, The Golden Bough, one-volume edition, pp.593-94.Copyright 1922 by the Macmillan Company and used with their permission.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">26　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,pp.594-95.By permission of the Macmillan Company, publishers.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">27　Adapted from Burton, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,III, pp.231-56.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">28　Gospel According to Matthew,17:1-9.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">29　在彼得立即提出的、将不可言喻的显圣之处变成石头地基的计划中（甚至在显圣时就宣布），我们能感觉到喜剧性观念的成分。仅仅在六天前，耶稣曾对他说：“你是彼得，我要把我的教堂建在这块石头上，”过了一会儿又说：“你觉察不到上帝的意思，但能觉察到人的意思。”（Matthew,16:18,23）.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">30　Bhagavad Gita,11;1:45-46;2:9.From the translation by Swami Nikhilananda(New York,1944).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">31　Brhadaranyaka Upanisad,1.1.1:translated by Swami Madhavananda(Mayavati,1934).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">32　Robinson Jeffers, <span class="xieti">Cawdor</span>, p.116.Copyright 1928 by Robinson Jeffers.Reprinted bypermission of Random House, Inc.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">33　<span class="xieti">Summa contra Gentiles</span>, I,5,par.3.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">34　Kena Upanisad,2:3.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">35　Bhagavad Gita,11:53-55.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">36　Gospel According to Matthew,16:25.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">37　Shankaracharya, <span class="xieti">Vivekachudamani</span>,542 and 555.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">38　Bhagavad Git A,2:22-24.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">39　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,3:19 and 3:30.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">40　"Taliesin,"<span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,pp.264-74.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">41　Gospel According to John,8:58.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">42　Ovid, <span class="xieti">Metamorphoses</span>, XV,252-55.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">43　<span class="xieti">Grimm's Fairy Tales</span>, No.50,"Little Briar-rose"(better known as"Sleeping Beauty");conclusion.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text_center">04　解答</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">1　For a discussion of this matter, see my Commentary to the Pantheon Books edition of <span class="xieti">Grimm's Fairy Tales</span>(New York,1944),pp.846-56.[This commentary is also available as part of Campbell's collection of essays, <span class="xieti">The Flight of the Wild Gander</span>, pp.1-19.—Ed.]</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">2　Psalm XLI,2-4;Douay.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">3　See the Catholic Daily Missal under"Holy Saturday."The above is abridged from the English translation by Dom Gaspar Lefebvre, O.S.B.,published in this country by the E.M.Lohmann Co.,Saint Paul, MN.[At the time of the original publication of this volume, of course, the Catholic Mass would have been entirely spoken and sung in Latin.—Ed.]</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">4　在印度，上帝的力量（萨克蒂）是以女性的形象出现的，并被视为上帝的伴侣；而以现代社会的惯例，天恩具有相似的象征。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">5　Gospel According to John,3:3-5.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text_center">第二部分　宇宙创世的周期</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text_center">05　产生</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">1　See C.G.Jung,"On Psychic Energy"(orig.1928,<span class="xieti">Collected Works</span>, vol.8),entitled in its earliest draft"The Theory of the Libido."</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">2　See Kant, <span class="xieti">Critique of Pure Reason</span>.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">3　Freud, <span class="xieti">Moses and Monotheism</span>, translated by James Strachey(Standard Edition, XXIII,1964).(Orig.1939.)</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">4　Gospel According to Luke,17:21.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">5　参阅本书p.168的内容。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">6　参阅本书p.78的内容。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">7　参阅本书pp.71-74的内容。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">8　参阅本书p.74的内容。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">9　Fernando de Alva Ixtlilxochitl, <span class="xieti">Historia de la Nación Chichimeca</span>(1608),Capítulo I(published in Lord Kingsborough's <span class="xieti">Antiquities of Mexico</span>, London,1830-48,vol.IX, p.205;also by Alfredo Chavero, <span class="xieti">Obras Históricas de Alva Ixtlilxochitl</span>, Mexico,1891-92,vol.II, pp.21-22).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">10　Hastings'<span class="xieti">Encyclopaedia of Religion and Ethics</span>, vol.V, p.375.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">11　See Mrs.Sinclair Stevenson, <span class="xieti">The Heart of Jainism</span>(Oxford University Press,1915),pp.272-78.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">12　See Maukya Upanisad,3-6.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">13　Maukya Upanisad,8-12.[For Campbell's further thoughts on the sacred syllable AUM, see <span class="xieti">Myths of Light</span>, pp.33-35.—Ed.]</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">14　Maukya Upanisad,7.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">15　<span class="xieti">Ha idra zuta</span>, Zohar, iii,288a.Compare p.155.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">16　<span class="xieti">Ha idra rabba qadisha</span>, xi,212-14 and 233,translation by S.L.Mac Gregor Mathers, <span class="xieti">The Kabbalah Unveiled</span>(London:Kegan Paul, Trench, Trübner&amp;Company, Ltd.,1887),pp.134-35 and 137.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">17　<span class="xieti">Summa contra Gentiles</span>, I.i.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">18　参阅本书pp.19-22的内容。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">19　Johannes C.Anderson, <span class="xieti">Maori Life in Aotea</span>(Christchurch[New Zealand],no date[1907?]),p.127.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">20　See <span class="xieti">The Vedantasara of Sadananda</span>, translated with Introduction, Sanskrit Text, and Comments, by Swami Nikhilananda(Mayavati,1931).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">21　Translated from Richard Wilhelm, <span class="xieti">Chinesische M?rchen</span>(Jena:Eugen Diederichs Verlag,1921),pp.29-31.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">22　Rev.Richard Taylor, <span class="xieti">Te ika a Maui, or New Zealand and Its Inhabitants</span>(London,1855),pp.14-15.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">23　The little circle underneath the main portion of Figure 59.Compare the Chinese Taoor <span class="xieti">yinyang</span>;see p.131.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">24　Kenneth P.Emory,"The Tuamotuan Creation Charts by Paiore,"<span class="xieti">Journal of the Polynesian Society</span>, vol.48,no.1(March 1939),pp.1-29.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">25　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,p.12.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">26　Chandogya Upanisad,3.19.1-3.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">27　A.S.Eddington, <span class="xieti">The Nature of the Physical World</span>, p.83.Copyright 1928 by the Macmillan Company and used with their permission.宇宙之蛋的神话形象还与现代物理学家的大爆炸理论产生了共鸣，大爆炸理论最早由一位比利时罗马天主教神父乔治·勒梅特（Georges Lemaitre）提出。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">28　"Entropy always increases."（See Eddington, pp.63 ff.）这是以另一种形式表述了热力学第二定律，它最早由法国科学家萨迪·卡诺（Sadi Carnot）于1824年提出。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">29　Kenneth P.Emory,"The Tahitian Account of Creation by Mare,"<span class="xieti">Journal of the Polynesian Society</span>, vol.47,No.2（June 1938）,pp.53-54.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">30　E.A.Wallis Budge, <span class="xieti">The Gods of the Egyptians</span>(London,1904),vol.I, pp.282-92.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">31　Kalika Pura￡a, I(translated in Heinrich Zimmer, <span class="xieti">The King and the Corpse</span>, edited by Joseph Campbell, The Bollingen Series XI, Pantheon Books,1948,pp.239 ff.).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">32　Brhadaranyaka Upanisad,1.4.1-5.Translated by Swami Madhavananda(Mayavati,1934).与前文关于变形逃跑的民间传说进行比较。参阅Cypria 8中，涅墨西斯“厌恶与父亲宙斯相爱”而变成鱼和其他动物逃脱的故事。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">33　Muaka Upanisad,2.2.5.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">34　Zohar, i,91 b.Quoted by C.G.Ginsburg, <span class="xieti">The Kabbalah:Its Doctrines, Development, and Literature</span>(London,1920),p.116.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">35　Taittir?ya Upanisad,3.10.5.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">36　美洲西南部的神话非常详细地描述了这种出现的情况，阿尔及尔的卡拜尔柏柏尔人（Kabyl Berber）的创世故事也是如此。See Morris Edward Opler, <span class="xieti">Myths and Tales of the Jicarilla Apache Indians</span>(Memoirs of the American Folklore Society, vol.XXXI,1938);and Leo Frobenius and Douglas C.Fox, <span class="xieti">African Genesis</span>(New York,1927),pp.49-50.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">37　George Grey, <span class="xieti">Polynesian Mythology and Ancient Traditional History of the New Zealand Race, as Furnished by Their Priests and Chiefs</span>(London,1855),pp.1-3.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">38　Theogony,116 ff.In the Greek version, the mother is not reluctant;she herself supplies the sickle.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">39　Compare the Maori polarity of Mahora-nui-a-rangi and Maki, p.232.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">40　S.N.Kramer, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,pp.40-41.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">41　Prose Edda,"Gylfaginning,"IV-VIII(from the translation by Arthur Gilchrist Brodeur, The American-Scandinavian Foundation, New York,1916;by permission of the publishers).See also Poetic Edda,"Voluspa."</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">42　"The Epic of Creation,"Tablet IV, lines 35-143,adapted from the translation by L.W.King, <span class="xieti">Babylonian Religion and Mythology</span>(London and New York:Kegan Paul, Trench, Trübner and Co.Ltd.,1899),pp.72-78.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">43　See Dante,"Paradiso,"XXX-XXXII.这是十字架上为人类开放的玫瑰花。</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">44　Book of Genesis,3:7.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">45　George Bird Grinnell, <span class="xieti">Blackfoot Lodge Tales</span>(New York:Charles Scribner's Sons,1892,1916),pp.137-38.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">46　J.S.Polack, <span class="xieti">Manners and Customs of the New Zealanders</span>(London,1840),vol.I, p.17.To regard such a tale as a cosmogonic myth would be as inept as to illustrate the doctrine of the Trinity with a paragraph from the nursery story"Marienkind"(<span class="xieti">Grimm's Fairy Tales</span>, No.3).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">47　Harva, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,p.109,citing S.Kra?eninnikov, <span class="xieti">Opisanie Zemli Kamcatki</span>(St.Petersburg,1819),vol.II, p.101.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">48　Harva, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,p.109,citing Potanin, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,vol.II, p.153.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">49　P.J.Meier, <span class="xieti">Mythen und Erz?hlungen der Küstenbewohner der Gazelle Halbinsel(Neu Pommern)</span>(Anthropos Bibliothek, Band I, Heft 1,Münster i.W.,1909),pp.15-16.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">50　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,pp.59-61.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">51　"The universe does not on the whole act as though it were under efficient personal supervision and control.When I hear some hymns, sermons, and prayers taking for granted or asserting with na?ve simplicity that this vast, ruthless cosmos, with all the monstrous accidents which it involves, is a neatly planned and personally conducted tour, I recall the more reasonable hypothesis of an East African tribe.'They say,'reports an observer,'that although God is good and wishes good for everybody, unfortunately he has a half-witted brother who is always interfering with what he does.'That, at least, bears some resemblance to the facts.God's half-witted brother might explain some of life's sickening and insane tragedies which the idea of an omnipotent individual of boundless good will toward every soul most certainly does not explain"(Harry Emerson Fosdick, As I See Religion, New York:Harper and Brothers,1932,pp.53-54).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">52　Harva, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,pp.114-15,quoting W.Radloff, <span class="xieti">Proben der Volksliteratur der türkischen St?mme SüdSiberians</span>(St.Petersburg,1866-70),vol.I, p.285.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text_center">06　童贞女得子</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">1　The version quoted here is from the translation by W.F.Kirby(Everyman's Library, Nos.259-60).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">2　<span class="xieti">Kalevala</span>, Runo I, pp.127-36.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">3　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,pp.263-80.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">4　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,pp.287-328.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">5　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,pp.329-44.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">6　Leo Frobenius and Douglas C.Fox, <span class="xieti">African Genesis</span>(New York,1937),pp.215-20.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">7　The Gospel of Pseudo-Matthew, Ch.ix.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">8　Kingsborough, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,vol.VIII, pp.263-64.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">9　Kalidasa, <span class="xieti">Kumarasamibhavam</span>("The Birth of the War God Kumara").There is an English translation by R.Griffith(2nd ed.,London:Trübner and Company,1897).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">10　E.E.V.Collocott, <span class="xieti">Tales and Poems of Tonga</span>(Bernice P.Bishop Museum Bulletin, No.46,Honolulu,1928),pp.32-33.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text_center">07　英雄的蜕变</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">1　Giles, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,pp.233-34;Rev.J.Mac Gowan, <span class="xieti">The Imperial History of China</span>(Shanghai,1906),pp.4-5;Friedrich Hirth, <span class="xieti">The Ancient History of China</span>(Columbia University Press,1908),pp.8-9.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">2　Giles, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,p.656;Mac Gowan, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,pp.5-6;Hirth, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,pp.10-12.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">3　Giles, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,p.338;Mac Gowan, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,pp.6-8;Edouard Chavannes, Les mémoires <span class="xieti">his toriques de Sema Ts'ien</span>(Paris,1895-1905),vol.I, pp.25-36.See also John C.Ferguson, <span class="xieti">Chinese Mythology</span>("The Mythology of All Races,"vol.VIII, Boston,1928),pp.27-28,29-31.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">4　These three legends appear in the excellent psychological study by Dr.Otto Rank, <span class="xieti">The Myth of the Birth of the Hero</span>(Nervous and Mental Disease Monographs;New York,1910).A variant of the third appears in the <span class="xieti">Gesta Romanorum</span>, Tale LXXXI.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">5　The Charlemagne cycles are exhaustively discussed by Joseph Bédier, <span class="xieti">Les légendes épiques</span>(3rd ed.;Paris,1926).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">6　Louis Ginzberg, <span class="xieti">The Legends of the Jews</span>(Philadelphia:The Jewish Publication Society of America,1911),vol.III, pp.90-94.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">7　George Bird Grinnell, <span class="xieti">Blackfoot Lodge Tales</span>(New York:Charles Scribner's Sons,1892,1916),pp.31-32.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">8　Elsie Clews Parsons, <span class="xieti">Tewa Tales</span>(Memoirs of the American Folklore Society, XIX,1926),p.193.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">9　Adapted from Sister Nivedita and Ananda K.Coomaraswamy, <span class="xieti">Myths of the Hindus and Buddhists</span>(New York:Henry Holt and Company,1914),pp.221-32.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">10　Parsons, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,p.193.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">11　"Táin bó Cúalnge"(from the version in the <span class="xieti">Book of Leinster</span>,62 a-b):edited by Wh.Stokes and E.Windisch, <span class="xieti">Irische Texte</span>(Extraband zu Serie I bis IV;Leipzig,1905),pp.106-17;English translation in Eleanor Hull's <span class="xieti">The Cuchullin Saga in Irish Literature</span>(London,1898),pp.135-37.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">12　<span class="xieti">Book of Leinster</span>,64b-67b(Stokes and Windisch, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,pp.130-69);Hull, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,pp.142-54.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">13　From Eleanor Hull, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,p.154;translated from the <span class="xieti">Book of Leinster</span>,68a(Stokes and Windisch, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,pp.168-71).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">14　Hull, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,pp.174-76;from the <span class="xieti">Book of Leinster</span>,77(Stokes and Windisch, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,pp.368-77).Compare the transfiguration of Krsa, pp.198-201;see also Fig.32.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">15　Uno Holmberg(Uno Harva),<span class="xieti">Der Baum des Lebens</span>(Annales Academiae Scientiarum Fennicae, Ser.B, Tom.XVI, No.3;Helsinki,1923),pp.57-59;from N.Gorochov,"Yryn Uolan"(<span class="xieti">Izvestia Vostocno Siberskago Otdela I.Russkago Geograficeskago Obscestva</span>, XV),pp.43 ff.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">16　<span class="xieti">Kalevala</span>, III, pp.295-300.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">17　Clark Wissler and D.C.Duvall, <span class="xieti">Mythology of the Blackfeet Indians</span>(Anthropological Papers of the American Museum of Natural History, vol.II, Part I, New York,1909),pp.55-57.Quoted by Thompson, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,pp.111-13.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">18　Jacobus de Voragine, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,CIV,"Saint Martha, Virgin."</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">19　<span class="xieti">The Wooing of Emer</span>, abstracted from the translation by Kuno Meyer in E.Hull, op.cit.,pp.57-84.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">20　Parsons, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,p.194.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">21　Firdausi, <span class="xieti">ShahNameh</span>, translation by James Atkinson(London and New York,1886),p.7.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">22　Opler, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,pp.133-34.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">23　Adapted from Nivedita and Coomaraswamy, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,pp.236-37.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">24　Coomaraswamy, <span class="xieti">Hinduism and Buddhism</span>, pp.6-7.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">25　Gospel According to Matthew,10:34-37.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">26　Bhagavad Gita,18:51-53.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">27　Antiphons of the nuns, at their consecration as Brides of Christ;from <span class="xieti">The Roman Pontifical</span>.Reprinted in <span class="xieti">The Soul Afire</span>, pp.289-92.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">28　Ginzberg, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,vol.I, pp.305-6.By permission of the Jewish Publication Society of America.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">29　Wilhelm Stekel, <span class="xieti">Die Sprache des Traumes</span>, dream no.421.Death here appears, observes Dr.Stekel, in four symbols:the Old Fiddler, the Squinting One, the Old Woman, and the Young Peasant(the Peasant is the Sower and the Reaper).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">30　Bernardino de Sahagún, <span class="xieti">Historia General de las Cosas de Nueva Espa?a</span>(Mexico,1829),Lib.III, Cap.xii-xiv(condensed).The work has been republished by Pedro Robredo(Mexico,1938),vol.I, pp.278-82.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">31　Thomas A.Joyce, <span class="xieti">Mexican Archaeology</span>(London,1914),p.46.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">32　"Taín bó Regamna,"edited by Stokes and Windisch, <span class="xieti">Irische Texte</span>(zweite Serie, Heft2;Leipzig,1887),pp.241-54.The above is condensed from Hull, op.cit.,pp.103-7.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">33　Parsons, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,pp.194-95.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">34　Reprinted by permission of the publishers from Henry Clarke Warren, <span class="xieti">Buddhism in Translations</span>(Harvard Oriental Series 3),Cambridge, MA:Harvard University Press,1896,pp.95-110.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">Compare the stages of cosmic emanation, pp.231-32.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text_center">08　消解</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">2　Brhadaranyaka Upanisad,4.3.36-37.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">1　Bhagavad Gita,10:20.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">3　James Henry Breasted, <span class="xieti">Development of Religion and Thought in Egypt</span>(New York:Charles Scribner's Sons,1912),p.275.Reprinted by permission of the publishers.Compare the poem of Taliesin, pp.208-9.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">4　Franz Boas, <span class="xieti">Race, Language, and Culture</span>(New York,1940),p.514.See pp.82-84.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">5　Sahagún, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,Lib.I, Apéndice, Cap.i, ed.Robredo, vol.I, pp.284-86.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">6　Based on the translation by E.A.W.Budge:<span class="xieti">The Book of the Dead, The Papyrus of Ani, Scribe and Treasurer of the Temples of Egypt, about b.c.1450</span>(New York,1913).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">7　Reprinted by permission of the Harvard University Press from Henry Clarke Warren, <span class="xieti">Buddhism in Translations</span>, pp.38-39.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">8　Sylvanus G.Morley, <span class="xieti">An Introduction to the Study of the Maya Hieroglyphics</span>(57th Bulletin, Bureau of American Ethnology, Washington, D.C.,1915).Plate 3(facing p.32).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">9　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,p.32.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">10　The following account is based on the Poetic Edda,"Voluspa,"pp.42 ff.(the verses are quoted from the translation by Bellows, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,pp.19-20,24),and the Prose Edda,"Gylfaginning,"LI(translation by Brodeur, <span class="xieti">op.cit</span>.,pp.77-81).By permission of the American-Scandinavian Foundation, publishers.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">11　Gospel According to Matthew,24:3-36.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text_center">后记　神话与社会</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">1　Odyssey, IV,401,417-18,translation by S.H.Butcher and Andrew Lang(London,1879).</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">2　<span class="xieti">Ibid</span>.,IV,400-406.</p>

  <p class="bodycontent-text">3　Nietzsche, <span class="xieti">Thus Spake Zarathustra</span>,1.22.3.[The translation appears to be Campbell's own.—Ed.]</p>


  </div>

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="part0015.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">上一页
</a>
    

    <a href="../../../ydkn3tt6.html" class="calibreAHome">目录
</a>

    
      <a href="part0017.xhtml" class="calibreANext">下一页
</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
